.\" Test load for doclifter
.TH docliftertest1 1
.SH NAME
docliftertest1 \- section 1 test load for doclifter 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdocliftertest1\fR [-a | -b] [\fIoptional...\fR]

\fBdocliftertest1\fR -c \fI<required>\fP
 
\fBdocliftertest1\fR -d
[
.B optional
]
 
\fBdocliftertest1\fR [ -e | -f foo ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This file is a test load for doclifter, intended to exercise as much as possible
of its translation capability.  You are now reading the last sentence
of an ordinary paragraph; by inspecting the output, you can check that 
your formatter is generating a correct beginning-of-body even after
the section title, and an end-of-body event at the end of the
paragraph.
.PP
This is an ordinary paragraph started by a \fB.PP\fR macro.
A second line illustrates the effect of filling.
.PP
This
.B word 
should be bold. This 
.SM word
should be small.  The word
.SM ASCII
is actually an acronym.  This is a reference to section:
.SM SEE ALSO
it should be a link now.  Visiting the
.SM SYNOPSIS
is important.  While the
.SM SYNOPYOSIS
is not important and doesn't exist.
.IR This sentence should alternate italic and bold.
The words in the last sentence should have been run together.
.LP
This is an ordinary paragraph started by a \fB.LP\fR macro.
A second line illustrates the effect of filling.
.HP 5
This is a paragraph started by an \fB.HP\fR macro.
We translate it to DocBook as an ordinary paragraph break.
.IP & 5
This paragraph was led with \fB.IP & 5\fP.
A sample line to see how it formats -- it should turn into list markup.
.PP
There should be an index entry generated right after this sentence.
.IX Item <sample>
And right before this one.
.IP 5
This paragraph was led with \fB.IP 5\fP.
This should turn into an ordinary paragraph.
.PP
This paragraph contains a URL, http://www.google.com, that doesn't have
explicit \fB.UR\fP/\fB.UN\fR tags around it.  It should not be marked
up, because \fB.UR\fP/\fB.UN\fR tags exist in this document.
.IP \(bu
This is the first item in a bulleted list.
.IP \(bu
This is the second item in a bulleted list.
.IP \(bu
This is the third item in a bulleted list.
.PP
This is another ordinary paragraph.  It's going to be immediately
followed (without an intervening paragraph tag) by a table example
lifted straight from Mike Lesk's original tbl paper:
.TS
center, box;
c  s  s  s
c  s  s  s
c |c |c |c
c |c |c |c
l |n |n |n.
1970 Federal Budget Transfers
\s-2(in billions of dollars)\s0
=
State	Taxes	Money	Net
\^	collected	spent	\^
_
New York	22.91	21.35	\-1.56
New Jersey	8.33	6.96	\-1.37
Connecticut	4.12	3.10	\-1.02
Maine	0.74	0.67	\-0.07
California	22.29	22.42	+0.13
New Mexico	0.70	1.49	+0.79
Georgia	3.30	4.28	+0.98
Mississippi	1.15	2.32	+1.17
Texas	9.33	11.13	+1.80
.TE
In the above table, the presence or absence of cell borders may not be
exactly as
.BR tbl (1)
specified them (the DocBook DSSL toolchain sets BORDER=1 if there is
any frame attribute, which is wrong; according to the DocBook
specification, the frame attribute should only control box drawing
around the exterior of the table).  But the horizontal spanning and
centering should be displayed properly.
.SS MORE TABLES
We just started a subsection.
.P
Here's another table.  The first line of the table contains a heading
centered across all three columns; each remaining line contains a
left-adjusted item in the first column followed by two columns of
numerical data.  (The numerical alignment won't translate into DocBook.)
.TS
c s s
l n n.
Overall title
Item-a	34.22	9.1
Item-b	12.65	.02
Items: c,d,e	23	5.8
Total	69.87	14.92
.TE
This table illustrates the effect of the \fBexpand\fR option:
.TS
expand;
c s s s
c c c c
l l n n.
Bell Labs Locations
Name	Address	Area Code	Phone
Holmdel	Holmdel, N. J. 07733	201	949-3000
Murray Hill	Murray Hill, N. J. 07974	201	582-6377
Whippany	Whippany, N. J. 07981	201	386-3000
Indian Hill	Naperville, Illinois 60540	312	690-2000
.TE
Here's a really gnarly table with a lot of vertically spanned 
content and several multiline items per line.  However this 
is not done with a vertically-spanned format; for that, see the
next example.
.TS
box;
cb   s   s   s
c | c | c   s
ltiw(1i) | ltw(2i) | lp8| lw(1.6i)p8.
Some Interesting Places
_
Name	Description	Practical Information
_
T{
American Museum of Natural History
T}	T{
The collections fill 11.5 acres (Michelin) or 25 acres (MTA)
of exhibition halls on four floors.
There is a full-sized replica
of a blue whale and the world's largest star sapphire (stolen in 1964).
T}	Hours	10-5, ex. Sun 11-5, Wed. to 9
\^	\^	Location	T{
Central Park West & 79th St.
T}
\^	\^	Admission	Donation: $1.00 asked
\^	\^	Subway	AA to 81st St.
\^	\^	Telephone	212-873-4225
_
Bronx Zoo	T{
About a mile long and .6 mile wide, this is the largest zoo in America.
A lion eats 18 pounds
of meat a day while a sea lion eats 15 pounds of fish.
T}	Hours	T{
10-4:30 winter, to 5:00 summer
T}
\^	\^	Location	T{
185th St. & Southern Blvd, the Bronx.
T}
\^	\^	Admission	$1.00, but Tu,We,Th free
\^	\^	Subway	2, 5 to East Tremont Ave.
\^	\^	Telephone	212-933-1759
_
Brooklyn Museum	T{
Five floors of galleries contain American and ancient art.
There are American period rooms and architectural ornaments saved
from wreckers, such as a classical figure from Pennsylvania Station.
T}	Hours	Wed-Sat, 10-5, Sun 12-5
\^	\^	Location	T{
Eastern Parkway & Washington Ave., Brooklyn.
T}
\^	\^	Admission	Free
\^	\^	Subway	2,3 to Eastern Parkway.
\^	\^	Telephone	212-638-5000
_
T{
New-York Historical Society
T}	T{
All the original paintings for Audubon's
.I Birds of America
are here, as are exhibits of American decorative arts, New York history,
Hudson River school paintings, carriages, and glass paperweights.
T}	Hours	T{
Tues-Fri & Sun, 1-5; Sat 10-5
T}
\^	\^	Location	T{
Central Park West & 77th St.
T}
\^	\^	Admission	Free
\^	\^	Subway	AA to 81st St.
\^	\^	Telephone	212-873-3400
.TE
OK, here is a table example with spanned vertical format.  It
illustrates the vertical-spanning bug noted on the 
.BR doclifter (1)
manual page (but
.BR troff2docbook (1)
translates this table correctly).  If the translation were completely
correct, the "E" entry would span one row further downward.
.TS
allbox;
l l l
l l l
l ^ l.
A	B	C
_
D	E	F
G		H
I		J
.TE
.P
Now we'll test PIC translation to SVG.
.PS
box "box"
.PE
This line tests recognition of \v'-.4m'\fIsuperscripting\fR\v'.4m')
,br
This line tests recognition of the \uother\d superscript idiom.

.SH FILES
The following items illustrate \fB.TP\fR markup:
.TP 5
${HOME}/.profile
read at startup by 
.BR sh (1).
.TP
/etc/hosts
list of static host addresses used by the \fIbind\fR(8) library.
.SH SEE ALSO
ls(1),
.IR mkdir (1).
.\" End
